Migration Guide Version 4.0.0
=============================

Creating a PersistenceLayer
---------------------------
Starting with Version 4.0.0 creating a `PersistenceLayer` is not asnychronous anymore. To create a new `PersistenceLayer` just call the constructor like so:

```swift
let persistenceLayer = try PersistenceLayer(withDistanceCalculator: DefaultDistanceCalculationStrategy()) // 1.
persistenceLayer.context = persistenceLayer.makeContext() // 2.
```

Refer to the following numbers, matching the same nubmers in the code above, for further explanations.
1. To calculate the distance between geo locations you need to provide a distance calculation strategy. The only one available for now is the `DefaultDistanceCalculationStrategy`.
2. CoreData uses an `NSManagedObjectContext` to handle access to the underlying database. Since `NSManagedObjectContext` is not thread safe, each thread requires its own one. Therefore you need to set the `context` as shown. You need to reset this property each time you use the created `persistenceLayer` object on a new thread. For simplicity you might just recreate a `PersistenceLayer` everytime you need to do some database operations. However be careful with the model objects returned by those `PersistenceLayer` instances. never use them on different threads or after you have reset the `context` property. This will lead to strange unexplainable errors.

Creating and using a ServerConnection
---------------------------
There is only one `ServerConnection` class to use now. You may instantiate it with code similar to:

```swift
let url = URL(string: String(serverURL))
let authenticator = StaticAuthenticator()
let serverConnection = ServerConnection(apiURL: url!, persistenceLayer: persistenceLayer!, authenticator: authenticator!)
```

To change the behaviour you can change which `Authenticator` is used. The `StaticAuthenticator` is one where you can just provide a JWT token by setting the property `jwtToken`. To logout a user you can just set that token to `nil`. This prevents further uploads of measurements.

Using a DataCapturingService
-----------------------------
Most important update for the creation of a `DataCapturingService` is the addition of the `saveInterval` parameter. This specifies when the system stores captured data from a local cache to the database. Higher values reduce the load on the database but increase the risk of loosing data and require more memory. Also note if you want to get the current measurement length: It is only updated when saved to the database. So if you need updates on the track length in intervals of 10 seconds you need to set this value to 10.

For the creation of a MovebisDataCapturingService you should do something like:

```swift
let captureService = try MovebisDataCapturingService(connection: serverConnection, sensorManager: sensorManager, updateInterval: savingInterval, savingInterval: savingInterval, persistenceLayer: persistenceLayer, eventHandler: eventHandler)
```

Also note that you need to use the operations provided by `PersistenceLayer` to access data provided by the Cyface SDK. 
All wrapper methods formerly provided by `DataCapturingService` have been removed.
For further details see the following section.

### Loading Measurements

- Getting stored measurements: `let measurements = try persistenceLayer.loadMeasurements()`
- Getting all geo locations from a measurement: `let locations = try PersistenceLayer.collectGeoLocations(from: persistenceLayer.load(try measurementIdentifiedBy: measurementIdentifier))`
- Getting individual tracks between the user pressing pause: `let tracks = try persistenceLayer.load(measurementIdentifiedBy: measurementIdentifier).tracks`
- Getting locations from one track: `let trackLocations = track.locations`
- Deleting a measurement: `try persistenceLayer.delete(measurement: measurement)``

### Lifecycle

The lifecycle methods `start()`, `pause()`, `resume()` and `stop()` are still available but have been synchronized and should be thread safe by now.
Calling these methods in short succession, should cause each call the wait until the one before has finished.
